Exercise 1.7: Finalizing Your Python Program
Learning Goals

●	Interact with a database using an object-relational mapper
●	Build your final command-line Recipe application


Reflection Questions

1.	What is an Object Relational Mapper and what are the advantages of using one?
    a.	An Object Relational Mapper is a tool that enables seamless interaction between an object-oriented language and a relational database, offering benefits like easier code maintenance and database abstraction.

2.	By this point, you’ve finished creating your Recipe app. How did it go? What’s something in the app that you did well with? If you were to start over, what’s something about your app that you would change or improve?
    a.	Creating the Recipe app was a great learning experience. I think I did well with understanding and implementing the various complex pieces of the project including OOP and database integration, but if I were to start over, I would want to see what more can be done to refine the user interface.

3.	Imagine you’re at a job interview. You’re asked what experience you have creating an app using Python. Taking your work for this Achievement as an example, draft how you would respond to this question.
    a.	In my recent project, I developed a Python-based Recipe app, integrating database operations using SQLAlchemy. This experience sharpened my skills in Python for back-end development, enhancing my understanding of database interactions and object-oriented programming.
 
4.	You’ve finished Achievement 1! Before moving on to Achievement 2, take a moment to reflect on your learning in the course so far: 
    a.	What went well during this Achievement? 
        i.	I think it all went well, I was able to learn and comprehend some fairly complex technologies around Python, and then successfully implement what I learned to ultimately create a functional recipe app. 
    b.	What’s something you’re proud of? 
        i.	Similar to above, I am proud that I was able to ingest all the information in the first portion of this course, and accurately design a working application.
    c.	What was the most challenging aspect of this Achievement? 
        i.	The most challenging aspect was understanding database connectivity and ensuring efficient data handling, as you can probably tell from the code in my final project, I was not able to get SQLAlchemy working correctly with my database initially and needed to introduce some print code to help me troubleshoot the issue. Ultimately I was able to get it working though!
    d.	Did this Achievement meet your expectations? Did it give you the confidence to start working with your new Python skills?
        i.	Yes, although I would still be timid to tackle something new and on my own, I think I have acquired the necessary education and troubleshooting toolkit to be able to figure it out. 
    e.	What’s something you want to keep in mind to help you do your best in Achievement 2?
        i.	Stay focused and be patient and graceful with myself, these are complex technologies, and it is okay if I don’t immediately understand everything I am ingesting. Leverage all the tools you have access to to help you get the most out of the content in the course.

Well done—you’ve now completed the Learning Journal for Achievement 1. As you’ll have seen, a little metacognition can go a long way!